   If I were to go back in time and tell my younger self what I'd accomplished in the future, I'd never believe me. In years past, I was timid, quiet, and socially awkward. I kept to myself most of the time, and because of that, I got pushed around a lot. Anxiety ruled my existence with an iron fist. Karate classes, particularly sparring, provided an outlet for me to vent my frustrations. However, I remained a very passive person…until I took my Black Belt Exam.

   Back in January of 2016, I received an invitation to my black belt exam: a 4-hour gauntlet that would determine if I was ready to earn my Black Belt in karate. It evaluates everything taught since the beginning, and pushes candidates past their limits. The test is divided into three main sections: exercise, forms, and sparring. I had two weeks to practice. When the day finally came, I entered the dojo with a smile, greeted the instructors, and bowed into the test. I felt like I could accomplish anything.

   That overconfidence quickly became my worst enemy. I carelessly wasted most of my energy during the first two sections. By the time the third section rolled around, I was exhausted. Supposedly, this would be the most difficult part; however, by some masochistic joke, I was looking forward to it. Ten consecutive sparring matches against ten elite black belts with no breaks…I had never experienced such a huge challenge before. The thought of it thrilled me!

   Having already used up most of my energy, I was barely standing by this point. Sweat coated my forehead like a veil, my breathing was heavy, and my initial confidence was gone. I tried to convince myself that this section would be easy. I pictured myself pummeling my foes with cartoonish ease. Two rounds in, I realized that this was more difficult than I could have imagined. Those black belts didn't pull any punches, and every hit fractured more than just my resolve. The goal was simply to survive, but with all the punishment I was taking, even that seemed impossible. After being punched in the stomach for the seventieth time, I retched. Someone dragged a bucket over, and I lurched over and vomited in it before flopping to the ground unceremoniously. I felt like I had failed…

   Then something triggered inside my head. 

   Suddenly, my shattered willpower flooded back, and new energy surged through me like a shockwave. Slowly and deliberately, I lifted myself up from the ground with a defiant glare in my eyes. I was fed up with being pushed around. I was in crippling pain, but I had trained for this for ten years! This was MY moment, and NOTHING was gonna stand in my way!! Filled with determination, I raised my guard once more and charged back into the ring. I got thrashed plenty of times, but every time I fell, I got back up and fought harder. In the end, I passed the test. 

   After the test ended, my father came to me, utterly ecstatic. He told me that while I had been fighting, one of the instructors had leaned towards him and said that I fought "like a man possessed." That made me feel very proud. To think that I'd made such an impression on my own instructor!

   That test changed me on a fundamental level. Since then, I've become much more confident in myself. Instead of hiding from life's challenges like I used to, I look my problems in the eye and dare them to get in my way. So what if I fail the first time? It's just like that "Heroic Second Wind" trope—that part where the villain seemingly defeats the hero, only for the hero to stand back up and win the day through sheer willpower. It doesn't matter how many times I get knocked down. I'll always get back up.




