	There was a question presented to the class: “Should you thank your parents for making you who you are?” Under the Chinese teachings of filial piety, the answer will be “yes.” However, to me, if it was not for my decision in eighth grade to go against my parents, I would not be who I am today. 
	Since I was young, I have always had this dream of playing the flute: how wonderful it is to play an instrument anywhere I like whenever I have the inspiration! Thinking of the beautiful scene when the breezes stroke my face, gently playing with the layers of my silky dress as I play on a sunny day—nothing could be more wonderful. However, my mother, to my disappointment, disagreed: “No, you’re not learning to play the flute. It’s not an elegant instrument on stage. Never ask me about this again. Go practice your piano.”
	I never thought about the flute again until the end of seventh grade when I learned that there was an opportunity to join the school band as a beginner. Excited, I told my mom about joining band. “That’s good because you can learn violin there,” she replied. It felt as if I had been struck by a bucket of icy water. I knew there was no way she would accept my wish to choose flute. Disappointed, I excused myself and went into my room. 
After ruminating over this dilemma, biting my lips, I circled the word “band” on the class request. Tears ran down my cheeks. There, I joined band, without my parents’ knowledge.
	After a great deal of excitement over my decision, I soon began to worry. Compared to other members of the band who had been playing their instrument since elementary school, I needed a ton of practice in order to catch up with them. Trying my best not to let my parents know the fact that I’m in band, I used every spare moment at school to practice. I used music rooms, hallways, vacant bathrooms… anywhere I could think of was soon dominated by those sharp, metallic noises. 
	It was the midterm report card that had changed my flute career forever. Seeing a perfect score in the “band” column, my parents were mad at me at first, but after acknowledging the passion I have for band, they eventually let me stay. With the absolute freedom to play the flute to my heart’s content, it was the most triumphant moment of my life. Encouraged to go further, I practiced harder. More people began to appreciate me, and now I am a passionate contributor in the school marching band. I found myself freer and more powerful than ever.
	Confucius once said: “People are not saints, so how could they not see things wrong?” When I believe that a dream is worth pursuing even if there’s denial, I should still go for it. My parents may not be always right about their visions, so it’s okay for younger generations like me to pursue what I want in life. The future is mine to decide.

